--- 
title: fhir
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - fhir
  - healthcare
  - google
  - infrastructure-as-code
  - configuration-as-data
  - cloud inventory
description: Query, deploy and manage google resources using SQL
custom_edit_url: null
image: /img/stackql-google-provider-featured-image.png
---

import CopyableCode from '@site/src/components/CopyableCode/CopyableCode';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Creates, updates, deletes, gets or lists a <code>fhir</code> resource.

## Overview
<table><tbody>
<tr><td><b>Name</b></td><td><code>fhir</code></td></tr>
<tr><td><b>Type</b></td><td>Resource</td></tr>
<tr><td><b>Id</b></td><td><CopyableCode code="google.healthcare.fhir" /></td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Fields

The following fields are returned by `SELECT` queries:

`SELECT` not supported for this resource, use `SHOW METHODS` to view available operations for the resource.


## Methods

The following methods are available for this resource:

<table>
<thead>
    <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Accessible by</th>
    <th>Required Params</th>
    <th>Optional Params</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#create"><CopyableCode code="create" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="insert" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Creates a FHIR resource. Implements the FHIR standard create interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#create), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#create), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#create), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#create)), which creates a new resource with a server-assigned resource ID. Also supports the FHIR standard conditional create interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#ccreate), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#ccreate), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#ccreate), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#ccreate)), specified by supplying an `If-None-Exist` header containing a FHIR search query, limited to searching by resource identifier. If no resources match this search query, the server processes the create operation as normal. When using conditional create, the search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the resource as it was created on the server, including the server-assigned resource ID and version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `create`, see [Creating a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#creating_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#patch"><CopyableCode code="patch" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="update" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId1"><code>fhirId1</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Updates part of an existing resource by applying the operations specified in a [JSON Patch](http://jsonpatch.com/) document. Implements the FHIR standard patch interaction ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#patch), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#patch), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#patch)). DSTU2 doesn't define a patch method, but the server supports it in the same way it supports STU3. The request body must contain a JSON Patch document, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/json-patch+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `patch`, see [Patching a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#patching_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#update"><CopyableCode code="update" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="replace" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId1"><code>fhirId1</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Updates the entire contents of a resource. Implements the FHIR standard update interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#update), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#update), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#update), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#update)). If the specified resource does not exist and the FHIR store has enable_update_create set, creates the resource with the client-specified ID. It is strongly advised not to include or encode any sensitive data such as patient identifiers in client-specified resource IDs. Those IDs are part of the FHIR resource path recorded in Cloud Audit Logs and Pub/Sub notifications. Those IDs can also be contained in reference fields within other resources. The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. The resource must contain an `id` element having an identical value to the ID in the REST path of the request. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The conditional update interaction If-None-Match is supported, including the wildcard behaviour, as defined by the R5 spec. This functionality is supported in R4 and R5. For samples that show how to call `update`, see [Updating a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#updating_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#delete"><CopyableCode code="delete" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="delete" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId1"><code>fhirId1</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Deletes a FHIR resource. Implements the FHIR standard delete interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#delete), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#delete), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#delete), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#delete)). Note: Unless resource versioning is disabled by setting the disable_resource_versioning flag on the FHIR store, the deleted resources will be moved to a history repository that can still be retrieved through vread and related methods, unless they are removed by the purge method. For samples that show how to call `delete`, see [Deleting a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#deleting_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#conditional_delete"><CopyableCode code="conditional_delete" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Deletes a FHIR resource that match an identifier search query. Implements the FHIR standard conditional delete interaction, limited to searching by resource identifier. If multiple resources match, 412 Precondition Failed error will be returned. Search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. Note: Unless resource versioning is disabled by setting the disable_resource_versioning flag on the FHIR store, the deleted resource is moved to a history repository that can still be retrieved through vread and related methods, unless they are removed by the purge method. For samples that show how to call `conditionalDelete`, see [Conditionally deleting a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#conditionally_deleting_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#conditional_update"><CopyableCode code="conditional_update" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>If a resource is found with the identifier specified in the query parameters, updates the entire contents of that resource. Implements the FHIR standard conditional update interaction, limited to searching by resource identifier. Search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. If the search criteria identify more than one match, the request returns a `412 Precondition Failed` error. If the search criteria identify zero matches, and the supplied resource body contains an `id`, and the FHIR store has enable_update_create set, creates the resource with the client-specified ID. It is strongly advised not to include or encode any sensitive data such as patient identifiers in client-specified resource IDs. Those IDs are part of the FHIR resource path recorded in Cloud Audit Logs and Pub/Sub notifications. Those IDs can also be contained in reference fields within other resources. If the search criteria identify zero matches, and the supplied resource body does not contain an `id`, the resource is created with a server-assigned ID as per the create method. The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `conditionalUpdate`, see [Conditionally updating a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#conditionally_updating_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#conditional_patch"><CopyableCode code="conditional_patch" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>If a resource is found with the identifier specified in the query parameters, updates part of that resource by applying the operations specified in a [JSON Patch](http://jsonpatch.com/) document. Implements the FHIR standard conditional patch interaction, limited to searching by resource identifier. DSTU2 doesn't define a conditional patch method, but the server supports it in the same way it supports STU3. Search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. If the search criteria identify more than one match, the request returns a `412 Precondition Failed` error. The request body must contain a JSON Patch document, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/json-patch+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `conditionalPatch`, see [Conditionally patching a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#conditionally_patching_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#binary-create"><CopyableCode code="binary-create" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Creates a FHIR Binary resource. This method can be used to create a Binary resource either by using one of the accepted FHIR JSON content types, or as a raw data stream. If a resource is created with this method using the FHIR content type this method's behavior is the same as [`fhir.create`](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.locations.datasets.fhirStores.fhir/create). If a resource type other than Binary is used in the request it's treated in the same way as non-FHIR data (e.g., images, zip archives, pdf files, documents). When a non-FHIR content type is used in the request, a Binary resource will be generated, and the uploaded data will be stored in the `content` field (`DSTU2` and `STU3`), or the `data` field (`R4` and `R5`). The Binary resource's `contentType` will be filled in using the value of the `Content-Type` header, and the `securityContext` field (not present in `DSTU2`) will be populated from the `X-Security-Context` header if it exists. At this time `securityContext` has no special behavior in the Cloud Healthcare API. Note: the limit on data ingested through this method is 1 GB. For best performance, use a non-FHIR data type instead of wrapping the data in a Binary resource. Some of the Healthcare API features, such as [exporting to BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/how-tos/fhir-export-bigquery) or [Pub/Sub notifications](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/fhir-pubsub#behavior_when_a_fhir_resource_is_too_large_or_traffic_is_high) with full resource content, do not support Binary resources that are larger than 10 MB. In these cases the resource's `data` field will be omitted. Instead, the "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/data-absent-reason" extension will be present to indicate that including the data is `unsupported`. On success, an empty `201 Created` response is returned. The newly created resource's ID and version are returned in the Location header. Using `Prefer: representation=resource` is not allowed for this method. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#read"><CopyableCode code="read" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId1"><code>fhirId1</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Gets the contents of a FHIR resource. Implements the FHIR standard read interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#read), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#read), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#read), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#read)). Also supports the FHIR standard conditional read interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#cread), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#cread), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#cread), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#cread)) specified by supplying an `If-Modified-Since` header with a date/time value or an `If-None-Match` header with an ETag value. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the resource. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `read`, see [Getting a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#getting_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#binary-read"><CopyableCode code="binary-read" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-BinaryId"><code>BinaryId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Gets the contents of a FHIR Binary resource. This method can be used to retrieve a Binary resource either by using the FHIR JSON mimetype as the value for the Accept header, or as a raw data stream. If the FHIR Accept type is used this method will return a Binary resource with the data base64-encoded, regardless of how the resource was created. The resource data can be retrieved in base64-decoded form if the Accept type of the request matches the value of the resource's `contentType` field. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#binary-update"><CopyableCode code="binary-update" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-BinaryId"><code>BinaryId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Updates the entire contents of a Binary resource. If the specified resource does not exist and the FHIR store has enable_update_create set, creates the resource with the client-specified ID. It is strongly advised not to include or encode any sensitive data such as patient identifiers in client-specified resource IDs. Those IDs are part of the FHIR resource path recorded in Cloud Audit Logs and Pub/Sub notifications. Those IDs can also be contained in reference fields within other resources. This method can be used to update a Binary resource either by using one of the accepted FHIR JSON content types, or as a raw data stream. If a resource is updated with this method using the FHIR content type this method's behavior is the same as `update`. If a resource type other than Binary is used in the request it will be treated in the same way as non-FHIR data. When a non-FHIR content type is used in the request, a Binary resource will be generated using the ID from the resource path, and the uploaded data will be stored in the `content` field (`DSTU2` and `STU3`), or the `data` field (`R4` and `R5`). The Binary resource's `contentType` will be filled in using the value of the `Content-Type` header, and the `securityContext` field (not present in `DSTU2`) will be populated from the `X-Security-Context` header if it exists. At this time `securityContext` has no special behavior in the Cloud Healthcare API. Note: the limit on data ingested through this method is 2 GB. For best performance, use a non-FHIR data type instead of wrapping the data in a Binary resource. Some of the Healthcare API features, such as [exporting to BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/how-tos/fhir-export-bigquery) or [Pub/Sub notifications](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/fhir-pubsub#behavior_when_a_fhir_resource_is_too_large_or_traffic_is_high) with full resource content, do not support Binary resources that are larger than 10 MB. In these cases the resource's `data` field will be omitted. Instead, the "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/data-absent-reason" extension will be present to indicate that including the data is `unsupported`. On success, an empty 200 OK response will be returned, or a 201 Created if the resource did not exit. The resource's ID and version are returned in the Location header. Using `Prefer: representation=resource` is not allowed for this method. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#vread"><CopyableCode code="vread" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId1"><code>fhirId1</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_historyId"><code>_historyId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Gets the contents of a version (current or historical) of a FHIR resource by version ID. Implements the FHIR standard vread interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#vread), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#vread), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#vread), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#vread)). On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the resource. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `vread`, see [Retrieving a FHIR resource version](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#retrieving_a_fhir_resource_version).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#binary-vread"><CopyableCode code="binary-vread" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-BinaryId"><code>BinaryId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_historyId"><code>_historyId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Gets the contents of a version (current or historical) of a FHIR Binary resource by version ID. This method can be used to retrieve a Binary resource version either by using the FHIR JSON mimetype as the value for the Accept header, or as a raw data stream. If the FHIR Accept type is used this method will return a Binary resource with the data base64-encoded, regardless of how the resource version was created. The resource data can be retrieved in base64-decoded form if the Accept type of the request matches the value of the resource version's `contentType` field. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#search"><CopyableCode code="search" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Searches for resources in the given FHIR store according to criteria specified as query parameters. Implements the FHIR standard search interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#search), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#search), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#search), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#search)) using the search semantics described in the FHIR Search specification ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/search.html), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/search.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/search.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/search.html)). Supports four methods of search defined by the specification: * `GET [base]?[parameters]` to search across all resources. * `GET [base]/[type]?[parameters]` to search resources of a specified type. * `POST [base]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method across all resources. * `POST [base]/[type]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method for the specified type. The `GET` and `POST` methods do not support compartment searches. The `POST` method does not support `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` search parameters. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `searchset`, containing the results of the search. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The server's capability statement, retrieved through capabilities, indicates what search parameters are supported on each FHIR resource. A list of all search parameters defined by the specification can be found in the FHIR Search Parameter Registry ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/searchparameter-registry.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/searchparameter-registry.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/searchparameter-registry.html)). FHIR search parameters for DSTU2 can be found on each resource's definition page. Supported search modifiers: `:missing`, `:exact`, `:contains`, `:text`, `:in`, `:not-in`, `:above`, `:below`, `:[type]`, `:not`, and `recurse` (DSTU2 and STU3) or `:iterate` (R4 and R5). Supported search result parameters: `_sort`, `_count`, `_include`, `_revinclude`, `_summary=text`, `_summary=data`, and `_elements`. The maximum number of search results returned defaults to 100, which can be overridden by the `_count` parameter up to a maximum limit of 1000. The server might return fewer resources than requested to prevent excessively large responses. If there are additional results, the returned `Bundle` contains a link of `relation` "next", which has a `_page_token` parameter for an opaque pagination token that can be used to retrieve the next page. Resources with a total size larger than 5MB or a field count larger than 50,000 might not be fully searchable as the server might trim its generated search index in those cases. Note: FHIR resources are indexed asynchronously, so there might be a slight delay between the time a resource is created or changed, and the time when the change reflects in search results. The only exception is resource identifier data, which is indexed synchronously as a special index. As a result, searching using resource identifier is not subject to indexing delay. To use the special synchronous index, the search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=[system]|[value]` or `identifier=[value]`, and any of the following search result parameters can be used: * `_count` * `_include` * `_revinclude` * `_summary` * `_elements` If your query contains any other search parameters, the standard asynchronous index will be used instead. Note that searching against the special index is optimized for resolving a small number of matches. The search isn't optimized if your identifier search criteria matches a large number (i.e. more than 2,000) of resources. For a search query that will match a large number of resources, you can avoiding using the special synchronous index by including an additional `_sort` parameter in your query. Use `_sort=-_lastUpdated` if you want to keep the default sorting order. Note: The special synchronous identifier index are currently disabled for DocumentReference and DocumentManifest searches. For samples and detailed information, see [Searching for FHIR resources](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-search) and [Advanced FHIR search features](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-advanced-search).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#search-type"><CopyableCode code="search-type" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-resourceType"><code>resourceType</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Searches for resources in the given FHIR store according to criteria specified as query parameters. Implements the FHIR standard search interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#search), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#search), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#search), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#search)) using the search semantics described in the FHIR Search specification ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/search.html), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/search.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/search.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/search.html)). Supports four methods of search defined by the specification: * `GET [base]?[parameters]` to search across all resources. * `GET [base]/[type]?[parameters]` to search resources of a specified type. * `POST [base]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method across all resources. * `POST [base]/[type]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method for the specified type. The `GET` and `POST` methods do not support compartment searches. The `POST` method does not support `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` search parameters. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `searchset`, containing the results of the search. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The server's capability statement, retrieved through capabilities, indicates what search parameters are supported on each FHIR resource. A list of all search parameters defined by the specification can be found in the FHIR Search Parameter Registry ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/searchparameter-registry.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/searchparameter-registry.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/searchparameter-registry.html)). FHIR search parameters for DSTU2 can be found on each resource's definition page. Supported search modifiers: `:missing`, `:exact`, `:contains`, `:text`, `:in`, `:not-in`, `:above`, `:below`, `:[type]`, `:not`, and `recurse` (DSTU2 and STU3) or `:iterate` (R4 and R5). Supported search result parameters: `_sort`, `_count`, `_include`, `_revinclude`, `_summary=text`, `_summary=data`, and `_elements`. The maximum number of search results returned defaults to 100, which can be overridden by the `_count` parameter up to a maximum limit of 1000. The server might return fewer resources than requested to prevent excessively large responses. If there are additional results, the returned `Bundle` contains a link of `relation` "next", which has a `_page_token` parameter for an opaque pagination token that can be used to retrieve the next page. Resources with a total size larger than 5MB or a field count larger than 50,000 might not be fully searchable as the server might trim its generated search index in those cases. Note: FHIR resources are indexed asynchronously, so there might be a slight delay between the time a resource is created or changed, and the time when the change reflects in search results. The only exception is resource identifier data, which is indexed synchronously as a special index. As a result, searching using resource identifier is not subject to indexing delay. To use the special synchronous index, the search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=[system]|[value]` or `identifier=[value]`, and any of the following search result parameters can be used: * `_count` * `_include` * `_revinclude` * `_summary` * `_elements` If your query contains any other search parameters, the standard asynchronous index will be used instead. Note that searching against the special index is optimized for resolving a small number of matches. The search isn't optimized if your identifier search criteria matches a large number (i.e. more than 2,000) of resources. For a search query that will match a large number of resources, you can avoiding using the special synchronous index by including an additional `_sort` parameter in your query. Use `_sort=-_lastUpdated` if you want to keep the default sorting order. Note: The special synchronous identifier index are currently disabled for DocumentReference and DocumentManifest searches. For samples and detailed information, see [Searching for FHIR resources](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-search) and [Advanced FHIR search features](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-advanced-search).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#patient-everything"><CopyableCode code="patient-everything" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-PatientId"><code>PatientId</code></a></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-start"><code>start</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-end"><code>end</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_page_token"><code>_page_token</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_count"><code>_count</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_since"><code>_since</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_type"><code>_type</code></a></td>
    <td>Retrieves a Patient resource and resources related to that patient. Implements the FHIR extended operation Patient-everything ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/patient-operations.html#everything), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/patient-operations.html#everything), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/patient-operation-everything.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/patient-operation-everything.html)). On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `searchset`, containing the results of the operation. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The resources in scope for the response are: * The patient resource itself. * All the resources directly referenced by the patient resource. * Resources directly referencing the patient resource that meet the inclusion criteria. The inclusion criteria are based on the membership rules in the patient compartment definition ([DSTU2](http://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/compartment-patient.html), [STU3](http://www.hl7.org/fhir/stu3/compartmentdefinition-patient.html), [R4](http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/compartmentdefinition-patient.html), [R5](http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/compartmentdefinition-patient.html)), which details the eligible resource types and referencing search parameters. For samples that show how to call `Patient-everything`, see [Getting all patient compartment resources](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#getting_all_patient_compartment_resources).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#capabilities"><CopyableCode code="capabilities" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Gets the FHIR capability statement ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/capabilitystatement.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/capabilitystatement.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/capabilitystatement.html)), or the [conformance statement](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/conformance.html) in the DSTU2 case for the store, which contains a description of functionality supported by the server. Implements the FHIR standard capabilities interaction ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#capabilities), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#capabilities), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#capabilities)), or the [conformance interaction](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#conformance) in the DSTU2 case. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `CapabilityStatement` resource.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#execute_bundle"><CopyableCode code="execute_bundle" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Executes all the requests in the given Bundle. Implements the FHIR standard batch/transaction interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#transaction), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#transaction), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#transaction), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#transaction)). Supports all interactions within a bundle, except search. This method accepts Bundles of type `batch` and `transaction`, processing them according to the batch processing rules ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#2.1.0.16.1), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#2.21.0.17.1), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#brules), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#brules)) and transaction processing rules ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#2.1.0.16.2), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#2.21.0.17.2), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#trules), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#trules)). The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR `Bundle` resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. For a batch bundle or a successful transaction, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `batch-response` or `transaction-response` containing one entry for each entry in the request, with the outcome of processing the entry. In the case of an error for a transaction bundle, the response body contains a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. This method checks permissions for each request in the bundle. The `executeBundle` permission is required to call this method, but you must also grant sufficient permissions to execute the individual requests in the bundle. For example, if the bundle contains a request to create a FHIR resource, the caller must also have been granted the `healthcare.fhirResources.create` permission. You can use audit logs to view the permissions for `executeBundle` and each request in the bundle. For more information, see [Viewing Cloud Audit logs](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/how-tos/audit-logging). For samples that show how to call `executeBundle`, see [Managing FHIR resources using FHIR bundles](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-bundles).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#history"><CopyableCode code="history" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId1"><code>fhirId1</code></a></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-_count"><code>_count</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_since"><code>_since</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_at"><code>_at</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_page_token"><code>_page_token</code></a></td>
    <td>Lists all the versions of a resource (including the current version and deleted versions) from the FHIR store. Implements the per-resource form of the FHIR standard history interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#history), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#history), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#history), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#history)). On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `history`, containing the version history sorted from most recent to oldest versions. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `history`, see [Listing FHIR resource versions](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#listing_fhir_resource_versions).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#resource-purge"><CopyableCode code="resource-purge" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId1"><code>fhirId1</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Deletes all the historical versions of a resource (excluding the current version) from the FHIR store. To remove all versions of a resource, first delete the current version and then call this method. This is not a FHIR standard operation. For samples that show how to call `Resource-purge`, see [Deleting historical versions of a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#deleting_historical_versions_of_a_fhir_resource).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#bulk-export"><CopyableCode code="bulk-export" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-_since"><code>_since</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_type"><code>_type</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-outputFormat"><code>outputFormat</code></a></td>
    <td>Bulk exports all resources from the FHIR store to the specified destination. Implements the FHIR implementation guide [system level $export](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/bulk-data/export.html#endpoint---system-level-export. The following headers must be set in the request: * `Accept`: specifies the format of the `OperationOutcome` response. Only `application/fhir+json` is supported. * `Prefer`: specifies whether the response is immediate or asynchronous. Must be to `respond-async` because only asynchronous responses are supported. Specify the destination for the server to write result files by setting the Cloud Storage location bulk_export_gcs_destination on the FHIR store. URI of an existing Cloud Storage directory where the server writes result files, in the format gs://&#123;bucket-id&#125;/&#123;path/to/destination/dir&#125;. If there is no trailing slash, the service appends one when composing the object path. The user is responsible for creating the Cloud Storage bucket referenced. Supports the following query parameters: * `_type`: string of comma-delimited FHIR resource types. If provided, only the resources of the specified type(s) are exported. * `_since`: if provided, only the resources that are updated after the specified time are exported. * `_outputFormat`: optional, specify ndjson to export data in NDJSON format. Exported file names use the format: &#123;export_id&#125;&#95;&#123;resource_type&#125;.ndjson. On success, the `Content-Location` header of the response is set to a URL that the user can use to query the status of the export. The URL is in the format: `projects/&#123;project_id&#125;/locations/&#123;location_id&#125;/datasets/&#123;dataset_id&#125;/fhirStores/&#123;fhir_store_id&#125;/operations/&#123;export_id&#125;`. See get-fhir-operation-status for more information. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#resource-validate"><CopyableCode code="resource-validate" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirId"><code>fhirId</code></a></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-profile"><code>profile</code></a></td>
    <td>Validates an input FHIR resource's conformance to its profiles and the profiles configured on the FHIR store. Implements the FHIR extended operation $validate ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/resource-operations.html#validate), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/resource-operations.html#validate), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/resource-operation-validate.html). or [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/resource-operation-validate.html)). The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. The `Parameters` input syntax is not supported. The `profile` query parameter can be used to request that the resource only be validated against a specific profile. If a profile with the given URL cannot be found in the FHIR store then an error is returned. Errors generated by validation contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#consent-enforcement-status"><CopyableCode code="consent-enforcement-status" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-ConsentId"><code>ConsentId</code></a></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>Returns the consent enforcement status of a single consent resource. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Parameters` (http://hl7.org/fhir/parameters.html) FHIR resource, containing the current enforcement status. Does not support DSTU2.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><a href="#patient-consent-enforcement-status"><CopyableCode code="patient-consent-enforcement-status" /></a></td>
    <td><CopyableCode code="exec" /></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-projectsId"><code>projectsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-locationsId"><code>locationsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-datasetsId"><code>datasetsId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-fhirStoresId"><code>fhirStoresId</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-PatientId"><code>PatientId</code></a></td>
    <td><a href="#parameter-_count"><code>_count</code></a>, <a href="#parameter-_page_token"><code>_page_token</code></a></td>
    <td>Returns the consent enforcement status of all consent resources for a patient. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a bundle of `Parameters` (http://hl7.org/fhir/parameters.html) FHIR resources, containing the current enforcement status for each consent resource of the patient. Does not support DSTU2.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Parameters

Parameters can be passed in the `WHERE` clause of a query. Check the [Methods](#methods) section to see which parameters are required or optional for each operation.

<table>
<thead>
    <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Datatype</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr id="parameter-BinaryId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="BinaryId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-ConsentId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="ConsentId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-PatientId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="PatientId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-_historyId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="_historyId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-datasetsId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="datasetsId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-fhirId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="fhirId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-fhirId1">
    <td><CopyableCode code="fhirId1" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-fhirStoresId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="fhirStoresId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-locationsId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="locationsId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-projectsId">
    <td><CopyableCode code="projectsId" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-resourceType">
    <td><CopyableCode code="resourceType" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-_at">
    <td><CopyableCode code="_at" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-_count">
    <td><CopyableCode code="_count" /></td>
    <td><code>integer (int32)</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-_page_token">
    <td><CopyableCode code="_page_token" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-_since">
    <td><CopyableCode code="_since" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-_type">
    <td><CopyableCode code="_type" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-end">
    <td><CopyableCode code="end" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-outputFormat">
    <td><CopyableCode code="outputFormat" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-profile">
    <td><CopyableCode code="profile" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr id="parameter-start">
    <td><CopyableCode code="start" /></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## `INSERT` examples

<Tabs
    defaultValue="create"
    values={[
        { label: 'create', value: 'create' },
        { label: 'Manifest', value: 'manifest' }
    ]}
>
<TabItem value="create">

Creates a FHIR resource. Implements the FHIR standard create interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#create), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#create), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#create), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#create)), which creates a new resource with a server-assigned resource ID. Also supports the FHIR standard conditional create interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#ccreate), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#ccreate), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#ccreate), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#ccreate)), specified by supplying an `If-None-Exist` header containing a FHIR search query, limited to searching by resource identifier. If no resources match this search query, the server processes the create operation as normal. When using conditional create, the search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the resource as it was created on the server, including the server-assigned resource ID and version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `create`, see [Creating a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#creating_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
INSERT INTO google.healthcare.fhir (
data__contentType,
data__data,
data__extensions,
projectsId,
locationsId,
datasetsId,
fhirStoresId,
fhirId
)
SELECT 
'{{ contentType }}',
'{{ data }}',
'{{ extensions }}',
'{{ projectsId }}',
'{{ locationsId }}',
'{{ datasetsId }}',
'{{ fhirStoresId }}',
'{{ fhirId }}'
RETURNING
contentType,
data,
extensions
;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="manifest">

```yaml
# Description fields are for documentation purposes
- name: fhir
  props:
    - name: projectsId
      value: string
      description: Required parameter for the fhir resource.
    - name: locationsId
      value: string
      description: Required parameter for the fhir resource.
    - name: datasetsId
      value: string
      description: Required parameter for the fhir resource.
    - name: fhirStoresId
      value: string
      description: Required parameter for the fhir resource.
    - name: fhirId
      value: string
      description: Required parameter for the fhir resource.
    - name: contentType
      value: string
      description: >
        The HTTP Content-Type header value specifying the content type of the body.
        
    - name: data
      value: string
      description: >
        The HTTP request/response body as raw binary.
        
    - name: extensions
      value: array
      description: >
        Application specific response metadata. Must be set in the first response for streaming APIs.
        
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## `UPDATE` examples

<Tabs
    defaultValue="patch"
    values={[
        { label: 'patch', value: 'patch' }
    ]}
>
<TabItem value="patch">

Updates part of an existing resource by applying the operations specified in a [JSON Patch](http://jsonpatch.com/) document. Implements the FHIR standard patch interaction ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#patch), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#patch), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#patch)). DSTU2 doesn't define a patch method, but the server supports it in the same way it supports STU3. The request body must contain a JSON Patch document, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/json-patch+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `patch`, see [Patching a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#patching_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
UPDATE google.healthcare.fhir
SET 
data__contentType = '{{ contentType }}',
data__data = '{{ data }}',
data__extensions = '{{ extensions }}'
WHERE 
projectsId = '{{ projectsId }}' --required
AND locationsId = '{{ locationsId }}' --required
AND datasetsId = '{{ datasetsId }}' --required
AND fhirStoresId = '{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required
AND fhirId = '{{ fhirId }}' --required
AND fhirId1 = '{{ fhirId1 }}' --required
RETURNING
contentType,
data,
extensions;
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## `REPLACE` examples

<Tabs
    defaultValue="update"
    values={[
        { label: 'update', value: 'update' }
    ]}
>
<TabItem value="update">

Updates the entire contents of a resource. Implements the FHIR standard update interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#update), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#update), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#update), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#update)). If the specified resource does not exist and the FHIR store has enable_update_create set, creates the resource with the client-specified ID. It is strongly advised not to include or encode any sensitive data such as patient identifiers in client-specified resource IDs. Those IDs are part of the FHIR resource path recorded in Cloud Audit Logs and Pub/Sub notifications. Those IDs can also be contained in reference fields within other resources. The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. The resource must contain an `id` element having an identical value to the ID in the REST path of the request. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The conditional update interaction If-None-Match is supported, including the wildcard behaviour, as defined by the R5 spec. This functionality is supported in R4 and R5. For samples that show how to call `update`, see [Updating a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#updating_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
REPLACE google.healthcare.fhir
SET 
data__contentType = '{{ contentType }}',
data__data = '{{ data }}',
data__extensions = '{{ extensions }}'
WHERE 
projectsId = '{{ projectsId }}' --required
AND locationsId = '{{ locationsId }}' --required
AND datasetsId = '{{ datasetsId }}' --required
AND fhirStoresId = '{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required
AND fhirId = '{{ fhirId }}' --required
AND fhirId1 = '{{ fhirId1 }}' --required
RETURNING
contentType,
data,
extensions;
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## `DELETE` examples

<Tabs
    defaultValue="delete"
    values={[
        { label: 'delete', value: 'delete' }
    ]}
>
<TabItem value="delete">

Deletes a FHIR resource. Implements the FHIR standard delete interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#delete), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#delete), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#delete), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#delete)). Note: Unless resource versioning is disabled by setting the disable_resource_versioning flag on the FHIR store, the deleted resources will be moved to a history repository that can still be retrieved through vread and related methods, unless they are removed by the purge method. For samples that show how to call `delete`, see [Deleting a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#deleting_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
DELETE FROM google.healthcare.fhir
WHERE projectsId = '{{ projectsId }}' --required
AND locationsId = '{{ locationsId }}' --required
AND datasetsId = '{{ datasetsId }}' --required
AND fhirStoresId = '{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required
AND fhirId = '{{ fhirId }}' --required
AND fhirId1 = '{{ fhirId1 }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Lifecycle Methods

<Tabs
    defaultValue="conditional_delete"
    values={[
        { label: 'conditional_delete', value: 'conditional_delete' },
        { label: 'conditional_update', value: 'conditional_update' },
        { label: 'conditional_patch', value: 'conditional_patch' },
        { label: 'binary-create', value: 'binary-create' },
        { label: 'read', value: 'read' },
        { label: 'binary-read', value: 'binary-read' },
        { label: 'binary-update', value: 'binary-update' },
        { label: 'vread', value: 'vread' },
        { label: 'binary-vread', value: 'binary-vread' },
        { label: 'search', value: 'search' },
        { label: 'search-type', value: 'search-type' },
        { label: 'patient-everything', value: 'patient-everything' },
        { label: 'capabilities', value: 'capabilities' },
        { label: 'execute_bundle', value: 'execute_bundle' },
        { label: 'history', value: 'history' },
        { label: 'resource-purge', value: 'resource-purge' },
        { label: 'bulk-export', value: 'bulk-export' },
        { label: 'resource-validate', value: 'resource-validate' },
        { label: 'consent-enforcement-status', value: 'consent-enforcement-status' },
        { label: 'patient-consent-enforcement-status', value: 'patient-consent-enforcement-status' }
    ]}
>
<TabItem value="conditional_delete">

Deletes a FHIR resource that match an identifier search query. Implements the FHIR standard conditional delete interaction, limited to searching by resource identifier. If multiple resources match, 412 Precondition Failed error will be returned. Search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. Note: Unless resource versioning is disabled by setting the disable_resource_versioning flag on the FHIR store, the deleted resource is moved to a history repository that can still be retrieved through vread and related methods, unless they are removed by the purge method. For samples that show how to call `conditionalDelete`, see [Conditionally deleting a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#conditionally_deleting_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.conditional_delete 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="conditional_update">

If a resource is found with the identifier specified in the query parameters, updates the entire contents of that resource. Implements the FHIR standard conditional update interaction, limited to searching by resource identifier. Search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. If the search criteria identify more than one match, the request returns a `412 Precondition Failed` error. If the search criteria identify zero matches, and the supplied resource body contains an `id`, and the FHIR store has enable_update_create set, creates the resource with the client-specified ID. It is strongly advised not to include or encode any sensitive data such as patient identifiers in client-specified resource IDs. Those IDs are part of the FHIR resource path recorded in Cloud Audit Logs and Pub/Sub notifications. Those IDs can also be contained in reference fields within other resources. If the search criteria identify zero matches, and the supplied resource body does not contain an `id`, the resource is created with a server-assigned ID as per the create method. The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `conditionalUpdate`, see [Conditionally updating a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#conditionally_updating_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.conditional_update 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required 
@@json=
'{
"contentType": "{{ contentType }}", 
"data": "{{ data }}", 
"extensions": "{{ extensions }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="conditional_patch">

If a resource is found with the identifier specified in the query parameters, updates part of that resource by applying the operations specified in a [JSON Patch](http://jsonpatch.com/) document. Implements the FHIR standard conditional patch interaction, limited to searching by resource identifier. DSTU2 doesn't define a conditional patch method, but the server supports it in the same way it supports STU3. Search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=system|value` or `identifier=value` - similar to the `search` method on resources with a specific identifier. If the search criteria identify more than one match, the request returns a `412 Precondition Failed` error. The request body must contain a JSON Patch document, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/json-patch+json`. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the updated resource, including the server-assigned version ID. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `conditionalPatch`, see [Conditionally patching a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#conditionally_patching_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.conditional_patch 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required 
@@json=
'{
"contentType": "{{ contentType }}", 
"data": "{{ data }}", 
"extensions": "{{ extensions }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="binary-create">

Creates a FHIR Binary resource. This method can be used to create a Binary resource either by using one of the accepted FHIR JSON content types, or as a raw data stream. If a resource is created with this method using the FHIR content type this method's behavior is the same as [`fhir.create`](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/reference/rest/v1/projects.locations.datasets.fhirStores.fhir/create). If a resource type other than Binary is used in the request it's treated in the same way as non-FHIR data (e.g., images, zip archives, pdf files, documents). When a non-FHIR content type is used in the request, a Binary resource will be generated, and the uploaded data will be stored in the `content` field (`DSTU2` and `STU3`), or the `data` field (`R4` and `R5`). The Binary resource's `contentType` will be filled in using the value of the `Content-Type` header, and the `securityContext` field (not present in `DSTU2`) will be populated from the `X-Security-Context` header if it exists. At this time `securityContext` has no special behavior in the Cloud Healthcare API. Note: the limit on data ingested through this method is 1 GB. For best performance, use a non-FHIR data type instead of wrapping the data in a Binary resource. Some of the Healthcare API features, such as [exporting to BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/how-tos/fhir-export-bigquery) or [Pub/Sub notifications](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/fhir-pubsub#behavior_when_a_fhir_resource_is_too_large_or_traffic_is_high) with full resource content, do not support Binary resources that are larger than 10 MB. In these cases the resource's `data` field will be omitted. Instead, the "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/data-absent-reason" extension will be present to indicate that including the data is `unsupported`. On success, an empty `201 Created` response is returned. The newly created resource's ID and version are returned in the Location header. Using `Prefer: representation=resource` is not allowed for this method. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.binary-create 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required 
@@json=
'{
"contentType": "{{ contentType }}", 
"data": "{{ data }}", 
"extensions": "{{ extensions }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="read">

Gets the contents of a FHIR resource. Implements the FHIR standard read interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#read), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#read), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#read), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#read)). Also supports the FHIR standard conditional read interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#cread), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#cread), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#cread), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#cread)) specified by supplying an `If-Modified-Since` header with a date/time value or an `If-None-Match` header with an ETag value. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the resource. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `read`, see [Getting a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#getting_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.read 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required, 
@fhirId1='{{ fhirId1 }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="binary-read">

Gets the contents of a FHIR Binary resource. This method can be used to retrieve a Binary resource either by using the FHIR JSON mimetype as the value for the Accept header, or as a raw data stream. If the FHIR Accept type is used this method will return a Binary resource with the data base64-encoded, regardless of how the resource was created. The resource data can be retrieved in base64-decoded form if the Accept type of the request matches the value of the resource's `contentType` field. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.binary-read 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@BinaryId='{{ BinaryId }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="binary-update">

Updates the entire contents of a Binary resource. If the specified resource does not exist and the FHIR store has enable_update_create set, creates the resource with the client-specified ID. It is strongly advised not to include or encode any sensitive data such as patient identifiers in client-specified resource IDs. Those IDs are part of the FHIR resource path recorded in Cloud Audit Logs and Pub/Sub notifications. Those IDs can also be contained in reference fields within other resources. This method can be used to update a Binary resource either by using one of the accepted FHIR JSON content types, or as a raw data stream. If a resource is updated with this method using the FHIR content type this method's behavior is the same as `update`. If a resource type other than Binary is used in the request it will be treated in the same way as non-FHIR data. When a non-FHIR content type is used in the request, a Binary resource will be generated using the ID from the resource path, and the uploaded data will be stored in the `content` field (`DSTU2` and `STU3`), or the `data` field (`R4` and `R5`). The Binary resource's `contentType` will be filled in using the value of the `Content-Type` header, and the `securityContext` field (not present in `DSTU2`) will be populated from the `X-Security-Context` header if it exists. At this time `securityContext` has no special behavior in the Cloud Healthcare API. Note: the limit on data ingested through this method is 2 GB. For best performance, use a non-FHIR data type instead of wrapping the data in a Binary resource. Some of the Healthcare API features, such as [exporting to BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/how-tos/fhir-export-bigquery) or [Pub/Sub notifications](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/fhir-pubsub#behavior_when_a_fhir_resource_is_too_large_or_traffic_is_high) with full resource content, do not support Binary resources that are larger than 10 MB. In these cases the resource's `data` field will be omitted. Instead, the "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/data-absent-reason" extension will be present to indicate that including the data is `unsupported`. On success, an empty 200 OK response will be returned, or a 201 Created if the resource did not exit. The resource's ID and version are returned in the Location header. Using `Prefer: representation=resource` is not allowed for this method. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.binary-update 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@BinaryId='{{ BinaryId }}' --required 
@@json=
'{
"contentType": "{{ contentType }}", 
"data": "{{ data }}", 
"extensions": "{{ extensions }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="vread">

Gets the contents of a version (current or historical) of a FHIR resource by version ID. Implements the FHIR standard vread interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#vread), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#vread), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#vread), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#vread)). On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of the resource. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `vread`, see [Retrieving a FHIR resource version](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#retrieving_a_fhir_resource_version).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.vread 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required, 
@fhirId1='{{ fhirId1 }}' --required, 
@_historyId='{{ _historyId }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="binary-vread">

Gets the contents of a version (current or historical) of a FHIR Binary resource by version ID. This method can be used to retrieve a Binary resource version either by using the FHIR JSON mimetype as the value for the Accept header, or as a raw data stream. If the FHIR Accept type is used this method will return a Binary resource with the data base64-encoded, regardless of how the resource version was created. The resource data can be retrieved in base64-decoded form if the Accept type of the request matches the value of the resource version's `contentType` field. The definition of the Binary REST API can be found at https://hl7.org/fhir/binary.html#rest.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.binary-vread 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@BinaryId='{{ BinaryId }}' --required, 
@_historyId='{{ _historyId }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="search">

Searches for resources in the given FHIR store according to criteria specified as query parameters. Implements the FHIR standard search interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#search), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#search), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#search), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#search)) using the search semantics described in the FHIR Search specification ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/search.html), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/search.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/search.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/search.html)). Supports four methods of search defined by the specification: * `GET [base]?[parameters]` to search across all resources. * `GET [base]/[type]?[parameters]` to search resources of a specified type. * `POST [base]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method across all resources. * `POST [base]/[type]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method for the specified type. The `GET` and `POST` methods do not support compartment searches. The `POST` method does not support `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` search parameters. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `searchset`, containing the results of the search. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The server's capability statement, retrieved through capabilities, indicates what search parameters are supported on each FHIR resource. A list of all search parameters defined by the specification can be found in the FHIR Search Parameter Registry ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/searchparameter-registry.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/searchparameter-registry.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/searchparameter-registry.html)). FHIR search parameters for DSTU2 can be found on each resource's definition page. Supported search modifiers: `:missing`, `:exact`, `:contains`, `:text`, `:in`, `:not-in`, `:above`, `:below`, `:[type]`, `:not`, and `recurse` (DSTU2 and STU3) or `:iterate` (R4 and R5). Supported search result parameters: `_sort`, `_count`, `_include`, `_revinclude`, `_summary=text`, `_summary=data`, and `_elements`. The maximum number of search results returned defaults to 100, which can be overridden by the `_count` parameter up to a maximum limit of 1000. The server might return fewer resources than requested to prevent excessively large responses. If there are additional results, the returned `Bundle` contains a link of `relation` "next", which has a `_page_token` parameter for an opaque pagination token that can be used to retrieve the next page. Resources with a total size larger than 5MB or a field count larger than 50,000 might not be fully searchable as the server might trim its generated search index in those cases. Note: FHIR resources are indexed asynchronously, so there might be a slight delay between the time a resource is created or changed, and the time when the change reflects in search results. The only exception is resource identifier data, which is indexed synchronously as a special index. As a result, searching using resource identifier is not subject to indexing delay. To use the special synchronous index, the search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=[system]|[value]` or `identifier=[value]`, and any of the following search result parameters can be used: * `_count` * `_include` * `_revinclude` * `_summary` * `_elements` If your query contains any other search parameters, the standard asynchronous index will be used instead. Note that searching against the special index is optimized for resolving a small number of matches. The search isn't optimized if your identifier search criteria matches a large number (i.e. more than 2,000) of resources. For a search query that will match a large number of resources, you can avoiding using the special synchronous index by including an additional `_sort` parameter in your query. Use `_sort=-_lastUpdated` if you want to keep the default sorting order. Note: The special synchronous identifier index are currently disabled for DocumentReference and DocumentManifest searches. For samples and detailed information, see [Searching for FHIR resources](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-search) and [Advanced FHIR search features](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-advanced-search).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.search 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required 
@@json=
'{
"resourceType": "{{ resourceType }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="search-type">

Searches for resources in the given FHIR store according to criteria specified as query parameters. Implements the FHIR standard search interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#search), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#search), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#search), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#search)) using the search semantics described in the FHIR Search specification ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/search.html), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/search.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/search.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/search.html)). Supports four methods of search defined by the specification: * `GET [base]?[parameters]` to search across all resources. * `GET [base]/[type]?[parameters]` to search resources of a specified type. * `POST [base]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method across all resources. * `POST [base]/[type]/_search?[parameters]` as an alternate form having the same semantics as the `GET` method for the specified type. The `GET` and `POST` methods do not support compartment searches. The `POST` method does not support `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` search parameters. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `searchset`, containing the results of the search. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The server's capability statement, retrieved through capabilities, indicates what search parameters are supported on each FHIR resource. A list of all search parameters defined by the specification can be found in the FHIR Search Parameter Registry ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/searchparameter-registry.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/searchparameter-registry.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/searchparameter-registry.html)). FHIR search parameters for DSTU2 can be found on each resource's definition page. Supported search modifiers: `:missing`, `:exact`, `:contains`, `:text`, `:in`, `:not-in`, `:above`, `:below`, `:[type]`, `:not`, and `recurse` (DSTU2 and STU3) or `:iterate` (R4 and R5). Supported search result parameters: `_sort`, `_count`, `_include`, `_revinclude`, `_summary=text`, `_summary=data`, and `_elements`. The maximum number of search results returned defaults to 100, which can be overridden by the `_count` parameter up to a maximum limit of 1000. The server might return fewer resources than requested to prevent excessively large responses. If there are additional results, the returned `Bundle` contains a link of `relation` "next", which has a `_page_token` parameter for an opaque pagination token that can be used to retrieve the next page. Resources with a total size larger than 5MB or a field count larger than 50,000 might not be fully searchable as the server might trim its generated search index in those cases. Note: FHIR resources are indexed asynchronously, so there might be a slight delay between the time a resource is created or changed, and the time when the change reflects in search results. The only exception is resource identifier data, which is indexed synchronously as a special index. As a result, searching using resource identifier is not subject to indexing delay. To use the special synchronous index, the search term for identifier should be in the pattern `identifier=[system]|[value]` or `identifier=[value]`, and any of the following search result parameters can be used: * `_count` * `_include` * `_revinclude` * `_summary` * `_elements` If your query contains any other search parameters, the standard asynchronous index will be used instead. Note that searching against the special index is optimized for resolving a small number of matches. The search isn't optimized if your identifier search criteria matches a large number (i.e. more than 2,000) of resources. For a search query that will match a large number of resources, you can avoiding using the special synchronous index by including an additional `_sort` parameter in your query. Use `_sort=-_lastUpdated` if you want to keep the default sorting order. Note: The special synchronous identifier index are currently disabled for DocumentReference and DocumentManifest searches. For samples and detailed information, see [Searching for FHIR resources](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-search) and [Advanced FHIR search features](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-advanced-search).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.search-type 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@resourceType='{{ resourceType }}' --required 
@@json=
'{
"resourceType": "{{ resourceType }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="patient-everything">

Retrieves a Patient resource and resources related to that patient. Implements the FHIR extended operation Patient-everything ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/patient-operations.html#everything), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/patient-operations.html#everything), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/patient-operation-everything.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/patient-operation-everything.html)). On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `searchset`, containing the results of the operation. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. The resources in scope for the response are: * The patient resource itself. * All the resources directly referenced by the patient resource. * Resources directly referencing the patient resource that meet the inclusion criteria. The inclusion criteria are based on the membership rules in the patient compartment definition ([DSTU2](http://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/compartment-patient.html), [STU3](http://www.hl7.org/fhir/stu3/compartmentdefinition-patient.html), [R4](http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/compartmentdefinition-patient.html), [R5](http://hl7.org/fhir/R5/compartmentdefinition-patient.html)), which details the eligible resource types and referencing search parameters. For samples that show how to call `Patient-everything`, see [Getting all patient compartment resources](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#getting_all_patient_compartment_resources).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.patient-everything 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@PatientId='{{ PatientId }}' --required, 
@start='{{ start }}', 
@end='{{ end }}', 
@_page_token='{{ _page_token }}', 
@_count='{{ _count }}', 
@_since='{{ _since }}', 
@_type='{{ _type }}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="capabilities">

Gets the FHIR capability statement ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/capabilitystatement.html), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/capabilitystatement.html), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/capabilitystatement.html)), or the [conformance statement](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/conformance.html) in the DSTU2 case for the store, which contains a description of functionality supported by the server. Implements the FHIR standard capabilities interaction ([STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#capabilities), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#capabilities), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#capabilities)), or the [conformance interaction](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#conformance) in the DSTU2 case. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `CapabilityStatement` resource.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.capabilities 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="execute_bundle">

Executes all the requests in the given Bundle. Implements the FHIR standard batch/transaction interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#transaction), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#transaction), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#transaction), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#transaction)). Supports all interactions within a bundle, except search. This method accepts Bundles of type `batch` and `transaction`, processing them according to the batch processing rules ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#2.1.0.16.1), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#2.21.0.17.1), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#brules), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#brules)) and transaction processing rules ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#2.1.0.16.2), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#2.21.0.17.2), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#trules), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#trules)). The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR `Bundle` resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. For a batch bundle or a successful transaction, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `batch-response` or `transaction-response` containing one entry for each entry in the request, with the outcome of processing the entry. In the case of an error for a transaction bundle, the response body contains a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. This method checks permissions for each request in the bundle. The `executeBundle` permission is required to call this method, but you must also grant sufficient permissions to execute the individual requests in the bundle. For example, if the bundle contains a request to create a FHIR resource, the caller must also have been granted the `healthcare.fhirResources.create` permission. You can use audit logs to view the permissions for `executeBundle` and each request in the bundle. For more information, see [Viewing Cloud Audit logs](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare-api/docs/how-tos/audit-logging). For samples that show how to call `executeBundle`, see [Managing FHIR resources using FHIR bundles](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-bundles).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.execute_bundle 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required 
@@json=
'{
"contentType": "{{ contentType }}", 
"data": "{{ data }}", 
"extensions": "{{ extensions }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="history">

Lists all the versions of a resource (including the current version and deleted versions) from the FHIR store. Implements the per-resource form of the FHIR standard history interaction ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/http.html#history), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/http.html#history), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#history), [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/http.html#history)). On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Bundle` resource of type `history`, containing the version history sorted from most recent to oldest versions. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead. For samples that show how to call `history`, see [Listing FHIR resource versions](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#listing_fhir_resource_versions).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.history 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required, 
@fhirId1='{{ fhirId1 }}' --required, 
@_count='{{ _count }}', 
@_since='{{ _since }}', 
@_at='{{ _at }}', 
@_page_token='{{ _page_token }}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="resource-purge">

Deletes all the historical versions of a resource (excluding the current version) from the FHIR store. To remove all versions of a resource, first delete the current version and then call this method. This is not a FHIR standard operation. For samples that show how to call `Resource-purge`, see [Deleting historical versions of a FHIR resource](https://cloud.google.com/healthcare/docs/how-tos/fhir-resources#deleting_historical_versions_of_a_fhir_resource).

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.resource-purge 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required, 
@fhirId1='{{ fhirId1 }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bulk-export">

Bulk exports all resources from the FHIR store to the specified destination. Implements the FHIR implementation guide [system level $export](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/bulk-data/export.html#endpoint---system-level-export. The following headers must be set in the request: * `Accept`: specifies the format of the `OperationOutcome` response. Only `application/fhir+json` is supported. * `Prefer`: specifies whether the response is immediate or asynchronous. Must be to `respond-async` because only asynchronous responses are supported. Specify the destination for the server to write result files by setting the Cloud Storage location bulk_export_gcs_destination on the FHIR store. URI of an existing Cloud Storage directory where the server writes result files, in the format gs://&#123;bucket-id&#125;/&#123;path/to/destination/dir&#125;. If there is no trailing slash, the service appends one when composing the object path. The user is responsible for creating the Cloud Storage bucket referenced. Supports the following query parameters: * `_type`: string of comma-delimited FHIR resource types. If provided, only the resources of the specified type(s) are exported. * `_since`: if provided, only the resources that are updated after the specified time are exported. * `_outputFormat`: optional, specify ndjson to export data in NDJSON format. Exported file names use the format: &#123;export_id&#125;&#95;&#123;resource_type&#125;.ndjson. On success, the `Content-Location` header of the response is set to a URL that the user can use to query the status of the export. The URL is in the format: `projects/&#123;project_id&#125;/locations/&#123;location_id&#125;/datasets/&#123;dataset_id&#125;/fhirStores/&#123;fhir_store_id&#125;/operations/&#123;export_id&#125;`. See get-fhir-operation-status for more information. Errors generated by the FHIR store contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.bulk-export 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@_since='{{ _since }}', 
@_type='{{ _type }}', 
@outputFormat='{{ outputFormat }}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="resource-validate">

Validates an input FHIR resource's conformance to its profiles and the profiles configured on the FHIR store. Implements the FHIR extended operation $validate ([DSTU2](https://hl7.org/fhir/DSTU2/resource-operations.html#validate), [STU3](https://hl7.org/fhir/STU3/resource-operations.html#validate), [R4](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/resource-operation-validate.html). or [R5](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/resource-operation-validate.html)). The request body must contain a JSON-encoded FHIR resource, and the request headers must contain `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`. The `Parameters` input syntax is not supported. The `profile` query parameter can be used to request that the resource only be validated against a specific profile. If a profile with the given URL cannot be found in the FHIR store then an error is returned. Errors generated by validation contain a JSON-encoded `OperationOutcome` resource describing the reason for the error. If the request cannot be mapped to a valid API method on a FHIR store, a generic GCP error might be returned instead.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.resource-validate 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@fhirId='{{ fhirId }}' --required, 
@profile='{{ profile }}' 
@@json=
'{
"contentType": "{{ contentType }}", 
"data": "{{ data }}", 
"extensions": "{{ extensions }}"
}';
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="consent-enforcement-status">

Returns the consent enforcement status of a single consent resource. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a `Parameters` (http://hl7.org/fhir/parameters.html) FHIR resource, containing the current enforcement status. Does not support DSTU2.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.consent-enforcement-status 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@ConsentId='{{ ConsentId }}' --required;
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="patient-consent-enforcement-status">

Returns the consent enforcement status of all consent resources for a patient. On success, the response body contains a JSON-encoded representation of a bundle of `Parameters` (http://hl7.org/fhir/parameters.html) FHIR resources, containing the current enforcement status for each consent resource of the patient. Does not support DSTU2.

```sql
EXEC google.healthcare.fhir.patient-consent-enforcement-status 
@projectsId='{{ projectsId }}' --required, 
@locationsId='{{ locationsId }}' --required, 
@datasetsId='{{ datasetsId }}' --required, 
@fhirStoresId='{{ fhirStoresId }}' --required, 
@PatientId='{{ PatientId }}' --required, 
@_count='{{ _count }}', 
@_page_token='{{ _page_token }}';
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
